Tools and issues.

Find issues on network, connections, config, software, traffic, and IP issues.

Unreachable Network
ICMP destination unreachable.
This means a datagram cannot be forwarded to its destination. Sometimes called if fragmentation is necessary.

Time Exceeded Message
TTL expires.

IP Parameter Problems
Devices might not be able to send a datagram because of error in header.

ICMP Control Message
These message are not from loss packets, they are to inform hosts of network congestion or a better gateway.

ICMP Redirects
If packet is routed back to itself or some weird destination or host ip is not checked.

IP Problems
Use tools to locate device causing issues.

Network cable is unplugged

Network Path Cannot be Found
Network does not exist, security settings, name of computer too long

Physicals connectivity issues
Loose or old connections, port issues. Cross check capacity of devices and traffic.

Local connectivity issues
Ping destination to see if same subnet mask.
Ping gateway if not in the same subnet.
- If destination is unreachable but it can send out pings, then ip could be duplicated
- Pinging is turned off often

Routing problems
TraceRoute can be used to look at each hopper router.
Telnet can ping can find destination and source.

Upper-layer faults
Firewall, service down, authentication, software compatibility, version mismatch.
- Check if server is down

Wireless network connection issues
- Check if enabled, changed SSID to access points
# Utilizes and Tools
### Ping
### Traceroute/tracert
Track packets across network.
ICMP echo to destination and receives reply,
### ipconfig/ifconfig
### nslookup
Look up addresses on network.
Resolve DNS and address resolution issues.
### netstat
Windows and Linux. Shows TCP traffic.
### PuTTY
Send files securely through SSH FTP.
### IP Subnet Calculator
Figure our if your subnet, class, and broadcast ranges are correct.
### speedtest.net / ookla
Close test location and far range location.
Close test is better test on your real speeds.
### pathping
Path characters from a host to a destination in one picture.
Data rate, loss rate, path.
### Route
Status of routing table on host.
### Nmap
Discover hosts. ports, and services on a network.
Service and version discovery, including OS version.
### Wireshark
Capture internet traffic.
### Hping2/Hping3
ICMP scanning, ASK scanning.
### netcat
Testing network conenction on windows and linux.
Traffic flow, ports, fingerprint, route checking, dns checking.
#### dig
Linus based to query DNS.
### arp and tcpdump
Troubleshoot arp cache tables on switches and routers.
tcpdump can capture network traffic.
### tcpreplay and dnsenum
Replaying previously sniffed traffic.
Discover noncontiguous IP Blocks.