>Date: 2024 09 03
>Author: Denali Therrien
>Teacher: Jason Schmidt

### Terminology
#### Database
- Self-Describing collection of Integrated Tables (**Kroenke**)
- A shared collection of logically related data and it's descriptions (*Metadata*), designed to meet the needs of an organization (**Connolly / Begg**)
- Organized collection of data, typically digital, models relevant information in a way that supports processes requiring this information (**Wikipedia**)

#### Metadata
- Data about data (Describes how all of the data is organized)
- Sometimes called System catalog or data dictionary
- Self describing nature of a database provides program-data independence

#### Database Management System (DBMS)
- Examples include Access, Oracle, SQLite, MySQL Server, DB2, PostgreSQL (postgres)
- A set of programs use to define, administer, and process the database and it's applications
- The software that manages and controls access to the database (**Connolly / Begg**)
- Translates the user's data requests to the physical data storage

#### Relational Database Management System (RDBMS)
- DBMS that organizes the data using relations (tables)
- Other DBMS include
	- Flat files
	- Hierarchical
	- Network Databases
	- Object-relational

#### Schema - The entire structure of the database including all Tables, Attributes, Relationships, etc.
#### Relation - The definition of a table with columns (Attributes) and rows (records) but **NOT** the data
>Example
>Author Table (Author Relation)

| auID | auLName | auFName | Phone | Address | City |
| ---- | ------- | ------- | ----- | ------- | ---- |
|      |         |         |       |         |      |

#### Row, Record, Entry, Touple - Stores data about a specific item in the table
#### Column, field, header, attribute - Describes the type of data that can be stored in that column for all items in the table
#### Constraint - Restrictions on data in a table. Rules that keep data in the database as valid as possible
> Example
> CST_YEAR can either be 1 or 2

#### Domain - The set of allowable values for one or more attributes. Might include criteria such as
- The datatype (Ex. char, varchar, number, date)
- Size of the datatype (Ex. char(10))
- Whether the value is unique
- Whether the value exists in another table
- Whether the value has constraints like business rules (Ex. Number between 0 and 9999)

#### Superkey
- An attribute for a set of attributes that can uniquely identify each row in a table (*Not primary key, generally not used*)
- May contain additional attributes that don't matter for identifying the row

#### Candidate Key
- Minimum set of attributes that uniquely identify each row in a table
- A table may have several candidate keys
- One is chosen to be the primary key

#### Primary Key
- Minimum set of attributes that uniquely identify each row in a table
- Cannot be null, chosen from the candidate keys

#### Foreign Key
- A primary key from a parent table that exists in a child table as foreign key for the purpose of linking the two table together.
- What holds relational databases together

#### Composite Key
- A key made up of more than one attribute.
- Every key needs to be unique but not necessarily the fields it's made of

#### Unique Key
- An attribute or set of attributes that is unique across the table (no two rows can have the same value).
- Technically a unique key allows null, but only one.

#### Surrogate Key
- A value is generated to uniquely identify a row
- Autonumber in Access
- Not derived from any data, only purpose is to be unique to each row
- Usually acts as the primary key and a sequential number

#### SQL - Structured Query Language - Most commonly used language for interacting with (usually) a relational database
##### Components of SQL
- **DDL** - Data Definition Language - Commands used to specify the database schema (Ex. `CREATE`, `DROP`, etc.)
- **DML** - Data Modification Language - Read and update the database data (Ex. `SELECT`, `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`, etc.)
- **DCL** - Data Control Language - Control permissions and access the database (Ex. `GRANT`, `REVOKE`, etc.)

#### 4GL (Fourth Generation Programming Language)
- (Basically Shorthand programming that requires fewer lines, "normal Language" interface)
- SQL is an example
- Non-procedural
- Concerned with the what and not the how

#### Transaction
- A unit of work comprised of a number of steps
- Data will be unreliable if any of the steps are missed or failed. Either all steps succeed or everything is *rolled back*
- Is this also what GIT uses?

#### Data Mining
- Analyzing collected data (often stored in a data warehouse) for patterns

#### Big Data
- Collection of large and complex data sets to which data mining is usually applied
