>Date: 2024 09 05
>Author: Denali

### The Basics
Customer service is based on positive first expression
You are providing customer service the moment
- Someone comes into your business
- Someone calls you

### Foundations
Favorable Impression
- Foundation for providing great customer service

Unfavorable Impression
- Work much harder to build a foundation

### Customer Service Basics
Creating a favorable first impression involves
- Being courteous
	- please, thank you, don't interrupt, pay attention

- Positive attitude
	- Overcomes a negative first impression

- Being truthful
- Ethical
- Following through with commitments
- Staying accountable

#### Example of bad service
“Sally drove to Bob’s Electronic Store to look for a new television set. She walked in and spotted two employees stocking streaming devices on a display rack. They were laughing and joking with each other as they worked. Neither looked at her. Neither asked if she needed help. She asked where she could find television sets. Without looking up, one of the employees said, “They’re over there,” pointing as he answered. She wandered over to the television sets. With so many different models from which to choose, she was confused and did not know which would be best for her needs. She noticed the employees were still joking around. Sally waited a few moments and, when neither one paid attention to her, she walked out of the store.”

##### Things they should have done
Ask her questions, approached her

##### Better situation
- “Sally drove to Bob’s Electronic Store to purchase a new television set. She walked in and spotted two employees stocking streaming devices on a display rack. They were dressed nicely and looked happy, laughing and joking with each other while they worked. They looked at her, smiled, and said “Welcome to Bob’s.” The employees were well-groomed, and their body language conveyed the message that they cared about themselves. Their smiles conveyed the message that they cared about her. Sally smiled back and said she was looking for a new television.
- Sally smiled back at the two employees and said “I’m looking for a new television, but there are so many new types | really don’t know what I’m looking for. Can you help me?”
- “Yes, Ma’am. My name is Jeff, and I’ll be happy to help you,” said one of the employees as he smiled warmly and walked toward her. “Let me show you what we have.” He walked with her to the television sets.”

##### Continuing the first impression
- “As they walked to the television sets, Jeff asked “Have you been to Bob’s before?” When Sally shook her head, he smiled and continued enthusiastically, “I’m glad you came in. Not only do we offer the lowest prices around, we stand behind all our merchandise.”
- Sally nodded. She felt comfortable that Jeff truly wanted to help her. When they reached the television display, Jeff said “I’ll tell you about the different types of sets we have and be happy to answer any questions.” He took the time to answer all her questions and guided her to make the right choice.”

### Phone Etiquette
Answer promptly and gladly meet your customers. Display a helpful attitude.
Keep the conversation flowing and ask questions where appropriate. At the end of the call, recap any action items and thank the customer for their call.

>*Steps for effective communication*
>1. Welcome your customer
>2. Find the best solutions
>3. Show appreciation
>(Evenson, 2017)

#### Welcome the Customer
Answer Promptly
- Customer should know they are important

Give the name of your business, name, and an opening statement or question
- It should sound positive and ready to help (Not robotic)

#### Find the Best Solutions
The customer should feel good about calling the company. How the call is handled is how the customer is going to remember your company

*Give your Full Attention*
- Be positive and pay attention when you answer the phone. Customers don't get a good impression when you ask them to repeat what they just said. They also don't like being put on hold.

*Summarize the customer's opening statement*
- Shouldn't repeat it but recap

*Verbalize what you are doing*
- Explain your process to the customer as you are doing it.

*During pauses, tell the customer what is happening*
- There will be times when you need to pause the conversation, let them know you are still working on the issue

*Put your personal into the contact*
- Be professional and friendly

*Explain why you need to place customers on hold*
- Tell them how long they will be on hold for, and give them the option to be called back

#### Show Appreciation
*Recap what you are going to do*
- Assure you have handled, or will handle the situation
- If there is a mistake in your recap, the customer will let you know

*Gain the customer's agreement*
- The customer should know how you will handle the issue

*Ask if you can help with anything else*

*Thank the customer for calling the business*

### Email Activity
In the world of e-mail etiquette, almost every email contains a few errors. The email below contains 10 of the most common mistakes. Read through the message and document as many as you can.

“Subject: Your procedure sucks!~~!~~  
From: Jack B. Nimble  
Date: Friday, Aug 11  
To: Bill Melater  
Cc: Doug Heelsin, Cal Oricounter, Carrie Mehome,  
Jack Thecarup, Foster Goodtimes, Bettina Urshirtonit

I am so *tirred* of having to deal with your outdated and stupid *prosedures* ~~>:~~(*Everytime* ~~Z~~I deal with your department it turns into a ~~LOL~~ situation. What do I have to do to get my *adress* *chaned*? I moved 6 months ago *a* you still haven’t been able to update my records. I **WORK IN THE SAME COMPANY AS YOU BUT YOU SEEM TO BE THE ENEMY!**~~!!!!!~~ My paycheck is still being forwarded from my old address this keeps me getting it late. Did you *receve* the form to have it deposited directly into my bank account? I don’t think so. I sent you a fax with my bank account number but you’ve probably lost that ~~X~~(Here it is again: #5866634792 If you did nothing has changed!~~! !!!!!!~~ I want to pick up my paycheck personally from your office ~~—is this~~ *if* possible~~.~~*,* *U*ntil this whole fiasco is cleared up. When is it cut and ready to be picked up? **GET BACK TO ME SOON!**~~!~~” (Bailey et al, 2009, 33)

#### Issues
1. Inappropriate subject line
2. Spelling mistakes
3. Grammar mistakes
4. Aggressive use of capital letters
5. Too many exclamation marks (Aggressive)
6. Unprofessional emoticons
7. using slang such as LOL
8. Sentence structure
9. CC too many people
