---
quickshare-date: 2024-01-10 11:25:26
quickshare-url: "https://noteshare.space/note/clr81x6m9176901mwbkrpqb4f#XnRRYVNToAVf87NDTW6sfvTbPIeV8AvSFWfrrHkEZS8"
---
# Simple Java Program
### Variables
javascript allows you to create variables and constants
- *let* creates a variable, ie. something whose value can change
- *const* creates a constant whose value cannot be changed once it has been assigned
- *var* can also be used for variables but it's not the same as *let*
- *var* variables are function scoped while let variables are block scoped
```JS
for(var i=0; i<10;i++) {
	console.log(i);
}
console.log(i) //OK
```
---
```JS
for(let i=0;i<10;i++){
console.log(i);
}
console.log(i); //ERROR
```
Unlike java, we don't specify a data type when declaring variables
This is what we reffered to earlier as loose typing
*This implication is fine*
```JS
let x = 0; //Declare x and init with an integer value
x = "Hello"; //Assign a string to the same variable
```
what happens when you misspell a variable? (without strict mode)
### Data Types
3 *main* Primitive data types
- Numbers (Floating point)
- Strings
- Booleans
Numbers are stored as floating point but you can specify them in different ways
- Integer, octal, hex, binary, floating point
Numbers
- Octal - Expressed in strict mode as 0o____ ie. 0o123
- Hex - Similar but uses 0x____ instead ie. 0x2A1
- Binary - 0b____
Strings
- Sequence of chars enclosed in double quotes
- Start and end of quotes must be the same
Strings, cont.
- Special characters can be escaped with a backslash
	- \\n
	- \\t
	- \\\
	- \\'
	- \\"
- Can be compared directly using comparison operators (*Don't require .equals() or .compareTo()*)
- Newer versions of JavaScript allow the use of template literals
	- enclosed with \`
	- can include calculations enclosed by ${}
	- Ie. 'Hello ${5\*10} times' --> "Hello 50 Times"
String Conversion (parseInt)
- Two forms (with or without base to convert to)
	- Ex. parseInt("50") --> 50
	- Ex. parseInt("50") --> 110010
- If the string doesn't contain a number a special value *NaN* (Not a Number) is returned
- Can check for this using Number.isNaN(arg) which returns true or false
parseInt
- If you don't specify a base but the String begins with 0, the string is either treated as an octal number or a decimal number
- If you don't specify a base but the string begins with 0x the string
null and undefined
- *null* refers to absence of value ie. the variable doesn't contain anything
- *undefined* indicates there has never been assigned to a variable