When an exception occurs, a message which explains its cause is received.   
PL/SQL Exception message consists of three parts.   
1) Type of exception  
2) An error code  
3) A message

By handling the exceptions we can ensure a PL/SQL block does not exit abruptly.
### Structure of Exception Handling
General Syntax:
```PLSQL
DECLARE

   BEGIN 
  	--An exception happens somewhere in the BEGIN
 EXCEPTION 
 WHEN exception_name1 THEN 
    -Error handling statements 
 WHEN exception_name2 THEN 
    -Error handling statements 
 WHEN Others THEN 
   -Error handling statements 
END; 

```
### Using PL/SQL statements in the Exception Block.
When an exception is raised: 
1.	Oracle searches for the exception handler in the exception section
2.	If it cannot be found, the WHEN Others exception is used (if presend)

Only one exception can be raised in a Block and the control does *not return to the execution* section after the exception is handled.

If the exception is raised in an inner block, for example, it should be handled in the exception area of the inner block or else the control moves to the exception block of the next upper PLSQL block. If none of the blocks handle it the program ends abruptly with an error.

Types of Exception.
There are 3 types of Exceptions.
- Named or predefined System Exceptions
- Unnamed or internally defined System Exceptions
- User-defined Exceptions
#### Named System Exceptions
Exceptions that happen often and so have been given a name and not just a code.  
Named system exceptions are:
1) Not declared explicitly
2) Raised implicitly when a predefined Oracle error occurs
3) Caught by referencing name in the exception section WHEN

| Exception Name      | Reason                                                                                                          | Error Number |
| ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------ |
| CURSOR_ALREADY_OPEN | Trying to open a cursor that is already open.                                                                   | ORA-06511    |
| INVALID_CURSOR      | performing an invalid operation on a cursor like closing a cursor, fetch data from a cursor that is not opened. | ORA-01001    |
| NO_DATA_FOUND       | a SELECT...INTO clause does not return any row from a table.                                                    | ORA-01403    |
| TOO_MANY_ROWS       | When you SELECT or fetch more than one row into a record or variable.                                           | ORA-01422    |
| ZERO_DIVIDE         | When you attempt to divide a number by zero.                                                                    | ORA-01476    |
More can be found [here](http://docs.oracle.com/cd/B28359_01/appdev.111/b28370/errors.htm).

For Example:
Suppose a NO_DATA_FOUND exception is raised we can write code to handle the exception as given below.

```PLSQL
BEGIN 
  Execution section
EXCEPTION 
WHEN NO_DATA_FOUND THEN 
 		dbms_output.put_line ('A SELECT...INTO did not return any row.'); 
 END; 
```

Oracle also has two helpful functions that we can use:

1. SQLERRM – It takes an integer parameter and returns the error message for that code, or if no parameters passed in it will return the current error message.
Example:  
```PLSQL
DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE(SQLERRM(-60));  
DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE(SQLERRM);
```

2. SQLCODE – Returns the error code for the most recently raised exception.
#### Unnamed System Exceptions

Unnamed exceptions do not have a specific name, only a code.

There are three ways to handle unnamed system exceptions:
1. By using the WHEN OTHERS indiscriminately (all at once)
2. By associating the exception code to a name and using it as a named exception
3. By using the code for it in WHEN OTHERS (case statement)

**PRAGMA** -Signifies that the statement is a compiler directive. Pragmas are processed at compile time, not at run time. They do not affect the meaning of a program; they convey information to the compiler.

To assign a name to unnamed system exceptions use a Pragma called **EXCEPTION_INIT.**
EXCEPTION_INIT will associate a predefined Oracle error number to a `programmer_defined` exception name.

Unnamed system exceptions:  
- Are raised implicitly
- That are not handled in OTHERS should be handled explicitly with a name
- can be given names with PRAGMA as above

The general syntax to declare unnamed system exception using EXCEPTION_INIT is:

```PLSQL
DECLARE 
   exception_name EXCEPTION; 
   PRAGMA 
   EXCEPTION_INIT (exception_name, Err_code); 
BEGIN 
      Execution section
EXCEPTION
  WHEN exception_name THEN
     handle the exception
END;
```

#### User-defined Exceptions

Defining exceptions based on business rules.
Steps to be followed to use user-defined exceptions: 
- They should be explicitly declared in the declaration section
- They should be explicitly raised in the execution section
- They can be (optionally) handled in the exception section using their name

```PLSQL
DECLARE
	Exception_name EXCEPTION;
BEGIN
	RAISE Exception_name; --usually called as a result of a conditional statement
EXCEPTION
	WHEN Exception_name THEN
		--do something
	END;
END;
```
## Raising an error
RAISE_APPLICATION_ERROR ( )
- A built-in procedure for creating and raising user-defined error codes/messages
- Whenever this is used all previous uncommitted statements will be rolled back automatically.
- Raises an exception but does not handle it (similar to *THROW* in java)
- Typically this is done instead of "catching" a custom exception

RAISE_APPLICATION_ERROR is used for the following reasons, 
- To create a unique error code and message
- To make a user defined exception look like an Oracle error and throw it higher up the stack

Syntax:
```PLSQL
RAISE_APPLICATION_ERROR (error_number, error_message); 
```

- The Error number must be between -20000 and -20999, these will be provided by the programmer 
- The `Error_message` is the message you want to display when the error occurs. Can be up to 2048 characters long

Steps to be followed to use RAISE_APPLICATION_ERROR procedure: 
1. Declare the exception in the declaration section
2. Raise the exception somewhere in the code
3. Catch the exception and then use RAISE_APPLICATION_ERROR to give it a code and number
(note: Can also just call RAISE_APPLICATION_ERROR from anywhere in the code)

```PLSQL
DECLARE
	Exception_name EXCEPTION;
BEGIN
	-- Usually called as a result of a conditional statement
	RAISE Exception_name;
EXCEPTION
	WHEN Exception_name THEN
		RAISE_APPLICATION_ERROR (error_number, error_message); 
END;
```

Note: Can simply call RAISE_APPLICATION_ERROR at any time to throw an exception with a custom code and message. It is not needed to have a user exception and catch it and then RAISE.