---
quickshare-date: 2024-01-10 11:27:09
quickshare-url: "https://noteshare.space/note/clr81zeg8177601mw58x03qfz#uICqQkn9pYeA9fM+8AsRKVTFKIN1/psHDeSisltt0WY"
---
# Basic Writing Errors
### Improve writing style and correctness
- Look for a pattern of error
- Recognize not all errors are equal
### Periods
ends the sentence
ends the thought
### Commas
Pause
Connects dependant and independent thoughts
separates 2 clauses joined by a conjunction, items in a list, appositive
### Semicolon
can only use when there is 2 individual complete thoughts
has the power of a period, but marks connection instead of closure
### Colon
points beyond itself, spotlight
Use after an independent clause to introduce a list, an appositive (renames or explains a noun or pronoun), or a quotation
Ex. _The UBC Museum of Anthropology has one outstanding exhibition: it's collection of remarkable Northwest Coast Indian artifacts._
### Dash
not to be confused with a hyphen
provides informational alternative
Ex. After a split second of hesitation, the second baseman leaped for the ball - or, rather, limped for it - with great effort
### Hyphens
Use in compound terms
used after prefixes except where _self_ is the root word (ex-, quasi-)
Use before a number or word that uses a capital letter
Use to _well_ to another word to add depth (well-written)
Ex. Heavy-metal pollution pollution by heavy metals
### Sentence Fragments
Ex. Falling into debt for the 4th consecutive year.
- The _company_ was falling into debt for the 4th consecutive year
Ex. A world where imagination takes over and sorrow is left behind.
- A world *arose* where imagination takes over and sorrow is left behind.
### Comma Splices
2 independent clauses connected ("Spliced") with a comma but no coordinating word
### Fixing comma splices and run-on sentences
Ex. He disliked discipline, he avoided anything demanding.
- *Because* he lacked discipline, he avoided anything demanding
### Subject-verb agreement
Subject and verb must agree in number
Ex. Various kinds of vandalism has been rapidly increasing
- Various kinds of vandalism *have* been rapidly increasing
### Pronouns
replace a noun
relates back ambiguously
### Gender inclusive language
*they*
when using APA, use the person's self-identified pronoun
### Singular Pronouns
Ex. It can be dangerous if a child, after watching TV, decides to practice what *they* saw
### Misplaced modifiers
appears to modify the word
Ex. At the age of three he caught a fish with a broken arm.
- At the age of three *the boy* caught the fish
Ex. An injured hiker, trapped in an abandoned mine shaft for almost 3 years, was rescued over the weekend after she lit a fire to attract attention.
Ex. In 1987, the release of more information became available.
- In 1987, *more information was released*
### Dangling Participles
the noun or pronoun that the writer intends the participial phrase to modify is not actually present in the sentence
Ex. After debating the issue of tax credits for the elderly, the bill passed in a close vote.
Ex. Having finished the assignment, the TV was turned on.
- Having finished the assignment, *Jill* turned on the TV.
### Errors in using Possessive Apostrophes
Adding 's to most singular nouns will make show possession
- The plant's roots
- The accountant's ledger
Adding ' to plural nouns that end with s will make them show possession
- The flowers' fragrance
- The ships' berths
Adding 's to plural nouns that don't end with s will make them show possession
- The children's art
Ex. The loyal opposition scorned the committees decisions - incorrect
- The loyal opposition scorned the committee's decisions - singular committee, possessive
- The loyal opposition scorned the committees' decisions - multiple committees, possessive
**DO NOT** use an apostrophe with possessive nouns
### Comma Review
- Oxford Comma
- Coordinating conjunctions (FANBOYS)
- Introductory Comma
Ex. Dog owners, despite their many objections, will have to obey the new law
### Coordinate Vs Cumulative adjectives
Cumulative - appear in a specific order, don't need to know
### Parallelism
Ex. Olympic athletes usually like practicing, competing, and to have fun
- Olympic athletes usually like practicing and competing. They also enjoy having fun.
### Active vs Passive voice
In a sentence written in the active voice, the subject of sentence performs the action
In a sentence written in passive voice the subject receives the action
Active: Legolas shot the arrow.
Passive: The arrow was shot by Legolas.
Use passive when you want to focus on the action rather than the person, or when the person is not important.