*Entity* (Nouns) ==Relationship== (Verbs)
# Example 1
*School* ==has a collection== of *departments*.  The school can’t exist without the departments and vice versa.  Departments are ==made up of== *instructors*.  An instructor can still be ==part of== the school without a department and vice versa.  *Students* ==attend== the school and can ==enroll== in *classes*.  Departments ==provide== classes.  *Courses* are ==assigned== Instructors and Students.

*Entities*
- School
- Department
- Instructor
- Student
- Class
- Course

# Example 2
*Children* attend a summer camp.  They are assigned to *cabins*.  Each cabin also has a *counselor*.  The camp is ==run by== many different *staff* including the counselors, *cleaners*, *cooks*, *teachers* and *Camp director*. 

The camp must ==keep track of== the staff.  This includes information such as address, phone, etc.  The camp must ==keep== the same information for the campers, except they also need contact information for the children’s *parents* and/or guardians.  Often campers may come from multi-home families so the ability to keep track of multiple parents/addresses/phones is important.

*Entities*
- Children
- Cabin
- Staff
- Counselor
- Cleaner
- Cook
- Teacher
- Director
- Parent

# Example 3
Uptown catering & fine foods in Saskatoon would like to ==store information== for their *menu*.  The menu is ==divided== into *categories* such as Entrée, Appetizer, Dessert, etc. They also would like to ==list== *ingredients* for each item.  They would also like to have a ==list== of *allergens* so that *customers* ==with== allergies can ==find== menu items they can eat safely.

Entities
- Menu
- Category
- Ingredient
- Allergen
- Customer

# Things to watch out for
- Synonym nouns - may suggest only a single entity (Ex. Children and Campers)
- Client/Customer talking about themselves in preamble - don't automatically create an entity that will only have a single row
- Verbs that aren't suggesting a link (Ex. The camp must keep track of the staff)
- Nouns in lists/examples (Ex. Staff includes Teachers, cooks, etc.)
- Nouns that are attributes (Ex. we need to track Staff first names, last names, etc.)
